Welcome to the openSAP course on Enterprise
Machine Learning.
My name is Markus Noga.
My Machine Learning team is part of SAP's
Innovation Center Network.
And we're on a mission to make all enterprise
applications intelligent.
This first installment of the course will help you
understand recent advances in machine learning.
It will give you an overview of what this means for
enterprise computing and for knowledge work in
general.
And it will help you understand the module
structure so you can navigate through the rest of
the course more effectively.
Machine learning is about computers learning
from data rather than being explicitly
programmed.
And this makes software progressively more
intelligent.
Examples of this surround us in our daily lives.
Whether it's the intelligent assistants on our
smartphones,
whether it's the smart thermostats in our homes,
or whether it's the self-driving cars all over the
press,
we're seeing evidence of computers becoming
more intelligent.
And this is possible now because of advances in
machine learning.
Computers are dealing with unstructured
information,
natural-language text, images, and videos
rather than the neat rows and tables of structured
information that were the computers' domain
before.
And computers are learning complex functions
on this unstructured data from examples
rather than with explicit programming.
One example of this is computer vision.
When I started studying computer science in the
late nineties,
any two-year-old was better at looking at an
image and saying what it's about.
Today, we can toss an image into a search box or
a dialog
and we will readily see labels and descriptions,
like people or dog, coming up.
And for the first time since late 2015, computers
are actually better than humans at this
as measured on popular benchmarks.
So progressively, unstructured information is
becoming available for us to do interesting things
with also in an enterprise context.
This is because we're not trying to hand-code or
hard-code decision rules about what to do:
If the left upper pixel of the image is red, do this.
Otherwise, do that.
It's unfeasible to get to a good image-processing
algorithm with hand-coded rules like that.
Instead, what we do is throw lots of examples at
the machine and have them learn fuzzy decision
functions
from that data with an appropriate training
regimen.
This has huge potential.
Machine learning for the enterprise is projected to
grow at over 50% year over year
towards a $4 billion market by 2020.
This has the potential to transform knowledge
work as we know it.
Already today in blue collar work, humans and
machines are working together on production
and assembly lines and together doing better
than each could be doing individually.
We will see the same in knowledge work with
repetitive, high-volume,
high-frequency tasks increasingly becoming
automated and humans focusing on value-added
tasks.
And together, humans and machines doing even
better than before.
This also enables us to do what has been
hitherto impossible.
Think of scenarios like taking out your mobile
phone, taking a picture of a part,
and being able to reorder immediately via the
Ariba network at the click of a button.
These kinds of scenarios would not be possible
without machine learning.
Why are we at an inflection point for machine
learning today?
It's because of three main factors:
Number one, we have the data.
Big Data.
Volumes that were unattainable even a couple of
years ago allow us to train much larger
networks with many more variables.
Big Compute.
Substantial improvements in the amount of
computational horsepower available to us,
especially on graphics cards or so-called GPUs,
enable us to actually crunch
and process the massive amounts of sample
data and training sets.
Number three – improvements in machine learning algorithms, especially in deep learning and reinforcement learning.
You will learn about these in the following
installments of the course.
Taken together, this creates an inflection point
also for enterprise computing
as machine learning enables us to leverage the
wealth of information
that the digital transformation provides to us and to bring together
the data assets of different enterprises in clouds
and on business networks
creating even larger pools of information to learn
from.
This course on Enterprise Machine Learning is
organized in seven modules.
The next session will help you understand basic
concepts behind machine learning
so that deep learning and reinforcement learning
are terms that have meaning to you.
The third section will help you understand how to
take an arbitrary business challenge
and to turn that into a tractable machine learning
problem that machine learning engineers can
actually work on
The fourth installment will help you understand
how machine learning fits into corporate
computing landscapes and how to interface with
existing applications.
And Units 5 and 6 of this course provide end-to-
end examples of taking a use case
and turning that into a concrete machine learning
solution.
Section 7 wraps up with key takeaways and next
steps, as well as future learning resources.